the Israeli military says it can now
confirm that it has killed Marwan Issa
the deputy commander of hamas's military
Wing Israel says he was killed by an air
strike earlier this month that targeted
the central Gaza Strip another senior
Hamas Commander was also reportedly
killed in that same
attack this evening after checking all
the intelligence at our disposal we have
established with certainty based on
solid intelligence that Maran Isa was
killed in the strike we carried out
approximately 2 weeks ago along with
gazi Abu Maran Isa was the deputy of
Muhammad Al daif and one of the planners
of the October 7th Massacre while gazi
Abu Tam was the former commander of the
Hamas Central brigades and was in charge
of weapons Manufacturing in Hamas they
were killed in a targeted and precise
strike based on information we received
from military intelligence and shinb and
which the Army used substantial and
unconventional operational capabilities
we will pursue our Noble efforts to
track down and Target Hamas
leaders well we can now speak to Osama
hamdan he's the senior spokesperson for
Hamas he joins us now from Beirut Mr
Haman is Maran Isa
dead everybody knows that Maran Isa is
one of the major commanders of alasam
brigades and everybody knows that the
Israelis have been saying since day one
that they want to Target the alasam and
Hamas commanders in the Gaza Strip
however in the absence of an official
statement from Hamas or alasam
confirming the marom or wounding of any
of its commanders or members we cannot
confirm such
information have you sir heard anything
from the alasan brigades your military
Wing as to Mr issa's whereabouts and
safety
this information is not usually traded
inside the movement the whereabouts or
information pertaining to the safety or
or alasam commanders is not information
that is exchanged internally however in
the absence of a statement by alasan
brigades about the martyrdom or wounding
of any of its leaders then the
information published by the enemy is
not deemed as confirmed it could very
well be part of a psychological war that
is waged by the occupation against the
resistance and the Palestinian people so
just to to be clear with our viewers at
the moment Mr hamdan you're saying that
you have no information as to Mr issa's
whereabouts or safety because the
military Wing has not shared that
information with you I understand that
he was acting as a sort of career for
the captive negotiations some mediators
have been saying that he's not been seen
for some time are those talks being
[Music]
affected of it's not about information
sharing I can confirm that any
information pertaining to the safety or
any attack against any of our commanders
is something that is announced by the
alasam leadership regarding the
negotiation process there is a Hamas
delegation that uh handles the
negotiations these negotiations were
recently thwarted by the Israeli side
and our brother the mujah Maran Isa was
not present in any negotiation sessions
and I think that any talk about him not
participating or appearing in the
negotiations until now is part of the
Israeli claims that they succeeded in
reaching him and assassin meting him
another Israeli claim that we're hearing
today is that you Hamas have rejected a
proposal for a deal and that action
apparently shows the damage that's been
done by the UN Security Council
resolution that was passed demanding an
immediate ceasefire can I ask you for
your response to that and perhaps your
assessment of how those talks are
going
quite frankly the occupation did not put
forward any proposals the side that
submitted an accurate proposal to put an
end to the aggression and to conduct the
swap was actually the Hamas movement and
this garnered Praise by the mediators
however the response that we received
from netanyahu's government two days ago
confirmed their rejection of our
proposal and we believed that what
actually encouraged the US
Administration to abstain from voting
against the SEC Council resolution was
the realization by the US Administration
that the side that is actually thwarting
the negotiations is the Israeli
side therefore the uh Security Council
resolution did not cause any damage as
claimed by the Israeli government
however this resolution confirmed that
the continuation of the Israeli
aggression and the continuous efforts by
the Israelis to thwart the negotiations
will push the International Community
towards resolutions that until recent
were very impossible to reach due to the
US
veto the Israeli delegation has
reportedly left Doha can I ask you what
the situation is are the talks ongoing
are you optimistic that there is a
conversation to be
had we have relayed a clear position
based on the acceptable Israeli response
we have informed the mediators of our
position and this position can be
summarized in two points one any deal
that is reached must accomplish the
Palestinian demands putting an end to
the aggression a pullout of occupation
forces allowing the refugees to return
to their homes and provide them with Aid
ensure the Reconstruction of Gaza and in
return for that we are willing to
conduct an acceptable and Equitable
prisoner swap the mediators have relayed
our stance to the Israeli delegation and
it is possible that they went back to
their country for further consultation
with the Zionist entities government uh
Mr hamdan I I want to ask you for
Clarity on the Hamas position because a
Hamas spokesperson yesterday told me on
Al jazer that you are only open to
releasing captives if an agreement with
Israel is reached that's in violation of
the UN Security Council resolution that
was just passed is that still your
position
the resolution of the security Council
states that prisoners and captives must
be released from both sides so we have
approximately 13,000 Palestinian
prisoners that were arrested during the
war and before that we had several
thousands that were arrested and there
should be a clear mechanism to releasee
the prisoners being held by the Israeli
side and we have been very clear if
there is a seiz fire and if Palestinian
prisoners are released it would only be
um fair for us to release the Israeli
captives uh in our custody what we want
is putting an end to the aggression and
releasing the captives however it was
the Israelis who refused the security
council's resolution and not Hamas on
the contrary Hamas welcomed the
resolution ution and we asked that there
be practical mechanisms that actually
Force the occupation to commit to this
resolution and abide by it and implement
it and the security Council resolution
did actually call for the unconditional
release of captives but I do hear that
you are saying that you require some
kind of an agreement in order to go
forward uh we'll leave it there for now
AMA hamdan the senior spokesperson for
Hamas speaking to us today from Beirut
thank you very much sir for joining us
on the alaz newsour and for your time
sorry clar to
clarify quite frankly the security
Council resolution first off stated that
there should be a ceasefire followed by
a prisoner release and therefore the
security Council resolution prioritizes
a ceasefire on the prisoner release and
when there is a ceasefire we will be
glad to engage in a prisoner swap thank
you for that CL clarification Mr hamdan
and thank you again for your time here
on the aler news
hour well let's now go to our
correspondent hamda salut in occupied
East Jerusalem hamda just coming back to
what we've been hearing from the
Israelis about Maran Issa this strike
that they say killed him happened some
two weeks ago what new information are
the Israelis sharing or saying that
they've received now in order to confirm
his death
the Israeli Army is saying that based on
intelligence they've gathered from both
the military and the Shin Bet they've
now drawn the conclusion that mwan Isa
was killed in that air strike in central
Gaza a couple of weeks ago the Americans
however on March 18th said that based on
their own intelligence gathering they
were able to confirm themselves that
mwan Isa was killed in that air strike
where the Israelis were still working to
confirm it now again we have not seen
any of this intelligence or any of this
information that the Israelis are saying
Hames itself has said that they don't
have any information on the matter but
it goes back to Israel saying that it is
going to accomplish every single one of
the goals and objectives that it's set
out to achieve in the beginning of this
war and one of the main ones was
dismantling Hamas both militarily and
politically they've been saying it for
months nearly six months in fact that
they are going to go after all Hamas
leadership not just in AA but all over
the world and that includes both
political figures and Military figures
Daniel hagari had said that mwana Isa
was in fact one of the people who
planned the October 7th attack saying
that he was third in command to yya
senad and Muhammad and this is the
highest figure in hamas's military Wing
that the Israelis are claiming they have
killed in Gaza and they say that they're
going to continuously go after people in
Hamas both fighters on the ground and
Leadership despite the fact that this
catastrophic and dire humanitarian
situation has unfolded in Gaza with more
than 32,000 Palestinians who've been
killed as a result of Israel's war Hamas
alut there with all the latest for us
from occupied East Jerusalem thank you
very much
hamda